CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome.
Please do not hesitate to add yourselfs to CREDITS file!
If you are looking for ideas check the TODO file.
Automated (unit) tests would be a real cool feature.

### Travis
This project uses Travis CI (https://travis-ci.org/).
Unfortunately this has not been setup for the main repository (and I can't do it myself)
If you do it to your fork, a centralized build will start and your changes will be checked.

### Supported Qt Version
CuteCom Version 0.3x was the first version based on Qt5. Originally it was developed using Qt 5.3.
Reported in issue #8 there are still users relying on Qt5 in a version less then 5.3.
Travis is currently setup to test the code against Qt version 5.4
(https://travis-ci.org/cyc1ingsir/cutecom).

Please verify, that your CRs don't rely on a higher Qt version. 

### Consistent Formatting

CuteCom is being developed with a code styleguide in place since I 
believe that a consistent coding style is important.
To achive that, clang-format is beeing used.
For a great talk on that you may want to watch this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7JmdCfI__c

Before you create a pull request, please make sure the code adheres 
to the style.

```
BasedOnStyle: llvm, ColumnLimit: 120, IndentWidth: 4, Standard: Cpp11,
PointerBindsToType: false, BreakBeforeBraces: Linux,
BreakConstructorInitializersBeforeComma: true, AccessModifierOffset: -4,
BreakBeforeBinaryOperators: true
```

You may do so by using the Qt Creator beautifier or the CLI (see below)

(To get the menu entry displayed, the beautifier plugin needs to be enablde under Help -> About Plugins.)

### Qt Creator Beautifier

![](clang_format_01.png)
![](clang_format_02.png)

For __Qt Creator version 4.x__ and above the syntax is different. Each setting needs to be entered on a new line: 
```
BasedOnStyle: llvm 
ColumnLimit: 120
IndentWidth: 4
Standard: Cpp11
PointerBindsToType: false
BreakBeforeBraces: Linux
BreakConstructorInitializersBeforeComma: true
AccessModifierOffset: -4
BreakBeforeBinaryOperators: true
```

### clang-format on CLI
This is based on clang-format version 3.8.0:

`>clang-format --version`

clang-format version 3.8.0 (tags/RELEASE_350/final 216961)

```
> clang-format  -i -style="{BasedOnStyle: llvm, ColumnLimit: 120, IndentWidth: 4, Standard: Cpp11, PointerBindsToType: false, BreakBeforeBraces: Linux, BreakConstructorInitializersBeforeComma: true, AccessModifierOffset: -4, BreakBeforeBinaryOperators: true}" mainwindow.cpp
```

You may use the provided script `format.sh` e.g. `./format.sh mainwindow.cpp`

Commit message:

fix Travis CI builds (#60)
* update travis instructions

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome.
Please do not hesitate to add yourselfs to CREDITS file!
Please do not forget to update the ChangeLog!
Please do not forget to add a licence header to each new file as well
as add yourself to the authors list of the files you have modified.
If you are looking for ideas check the TODO file.
Automated (unit) tests would be a real cool feature.

### Travis
This project uses Travis CI (https://travis-ci.org/).
Unfortunately this has not been setup for the main repository (and I can't do it myself)
If you do it to your fork, a centralized build will start and your changes will be checked.

### Supported Qt Version
CuteCom Version 0.3x was the first version based on Qt5. Originally it was developed using Qt 5.3.
Reported in issue #8 there are still users relying on Qt5 in a version less then 5.3.
Travis is currently setup to test the code against Qt version 5.9
(https://travis-ci.org/cyc1ingsir/cutecom).

Please verify, that your CRs don't rely on a higher Qt version. 

### Consistent Formatting

CuteCom is being developed with a code styleguide in place since I 
believe that a consistent coding style is important.
To achive that, clang-format is beeing used.
For a great talk on that you may want to watch this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7JmdCfI__c

Before you create a pull request, please make sure the code adheres 
to the style.

```
BasedOnStyle: llvm, ColumnLimit: 120, IndentWidth: 4, Standard: Cpp11,
PointerBindsToType: false, BreakBeforeBraces: Linux,
BreakConstructorInitializersBeforeComma: true, AccessModifierOffset: -4,
BreakBeforeBinaryOperators: true
```

You may do so by using the Qt Creator beautifier or the CLI (see below)

(To get the menu entry displayed, the beautifier plugin needs to be enablde under Help -> About Plugins.)

### Qt Creator Beautifier

![](clang_format_01.png)
![](clang_format_02.png)

For __Qt Creator version 4.x__ and above the syntax is different. Each setting needs to be entered on a new line: 
```
BasedOnStyle: llvm 
ColumnLimit: 120
IndentWidth: 4
Standard: Cpp11
PointerBindsToType: false
BreakBeforeBraces: Linux
BreakConstructorInitializersBeforeComma: true
AccessModifierOffset: -4
BreakBeforeBinaryOperators: true
```

### clang-format on CLI
This is based on clang-format version 3.8.0:

`>clang-format --version`

clang-format version 3.8.0 (tags/RELEASE_350/final 216961)

```
> clang-format  -i -style="{BasedOnStyle: llvm, ColumnLimit: 120, IndentWidth: 4, Standard: Cpp11, PointerBindsToType: false, BreakBeforeBraces: Linux, BreakConstructorInitializersBeforeComma: true, AccessModifierOffset: -4, BreakBeforeBinaryOperators: true}" mainwindow.cpp
```

You may use the provided script `format.sh` e.g. `./format.sh mainwindow.cpp`
